---
type: session
date: 11-29-2025
campaign: Adamarte and Adventurers
world: Lily's World
sessionNum: 0
location:
fc-calendar: Lily's World
fc-date:
  year: 0
  month: 0
  day: 0
fc-category: Sessions
long_rest: false
short_rest: false
summary: 
tags: inbox
art: ""
banner: z_Assets/Wizard Reading.jpg
pixel-banner-flag-color: blue-fade-light
banner-height: 350
---
# [[0. 2025-11-29]]

## Session Summary

 > [!tldr] [[0. 2025-11-29]]
>  ^summary

---

# Log
### Starting Info

We'll be starting at level 3 and will have an initial Session 0 where y’all can ask questions about the world and begin coming up with characters. The game - if all goes according to plan - should end around level 12. That said, I plan for level-ups to be semi-rapid (here’s hoping I stick to that).

The inciting incident will be crafted to your characters, so I unfortunately don’t have much to offer in terms of the starting plot. Expect colorful, high-magic, and RP heavy, though. There will be some horror elements occasionally, but think more Jennifer’s Body than Annihilation.

Feel free to ask any and all questions - if I don’t have an immediate answer, we can come up with one together!

### Player Options

All official D&D 5e content is available for use EXCEPT for Planescape, Spelljammer, Strixhaven, Acquisitions Incorporated, Wildemount, Ravnica, and Eberron (except Warforged, those are allowed).

If something is reprinted from one of these books (ex: Artificer from Eberron is also in Tasha’s), that’s fair game to use the other (ex: Tasha’s) version of. If you have questions, just run them by me and we can talk it through together!

### Equipment

Take your starting equipment, 1 common magic item, and 100 extra gp.

### Ability Scores

We’ll be using Standard Array, but also take an extra feat!

## History, Mythology, & Politics

### Mythology

At first, Fidor was alone. He was alone for a very long time, during which he learned to take the Nothingness and weave it into Somethingness. He wove the land of Adamarte, and within it, he wove a friend for himself: Mirus. Fidor wanted to make, so he made Mirus to observe and listen. However, Fidor could not see his work in the Nothingness that surrounded it, so he made wove Altan, a bright beacon to illuminate the work he had done. With the advent of the light, there also became the evident darkness, Layleh, and the dusk, Kaychek, between them. All those Fidor had woven so far were calm, but Layleh, the Darkness, hated the peacefulness. She tricked Fidor into showing off how he was also able to make chaos, weaving Ekaitz, the Storm. Fidor, realizing her trick, also made Adusta, the Crafter, who was dedicated to order in her own creations.

When he had made all of these gods, Fidor saw that Adamarte was not full. Together with his friends, he wove a new creation: humanoids, who were varied to the likings of the gods. Fidor also wove many mirrors of the world, each with their own denizens. He would remain near the top of the mirrors, or planes, and cast creatures he deemed immoral (other than his friends) down to the lower planes, far away from him.

A long time after, the humanoids would find their footing and soon after begin to worship something else, something that Fidor did not remember creating. The humanoids would call this Baraqiel, the All-Watcher. Baraqiel would inspire the humanoids to watch each other and begin to watch the world around them more closely. Since then, many great powers arose and fell, but the gods would always remain.

### History

Tribes of humanoids began to pop up across the continent, fighting amongst themselves. Eventually, they would settle into small, independent, and peaceful cities. There would be some skirmishes between groups, but no real war. However, as trade developed, tension grew between groups. A leader of a small town in central Adamarte, Muirgel of Khoros, decided that the best course forward was to unite as many people as she could under a common flag, and, against all odds, she succeeded. For almost 800 years, Adamarte was one, unified kingdom, with Khoros serving as its capital.

Then, all at once, war broke out. A group of powerful heroes, near demigods in power, attempted to take down a great, now unknown evil. The evil was vanquished, but, in its death throes, the evil killed the hereos and shook the land, inspiring hatred in the hearts of the powerful. This came to be known as the Tear. A powerful vampire, Dalvimir Ironcrown, took the East coast, naming it Tirnaghlas. Afraid of outsiders, a walled city would be built to the North East by devotees of Adusta. Those who valued Mirus’ calmness and wanted no part in the war fled the Southern island of Firgrove. Powerful mages, seeking their own system of government, went North to a powerful nexus of leylines, an area they would name Lirion. Khoros, once the capital city, would stretch across the West of the continent under the leadership of its next monarchs.

Since then, for 1538 years, the city-states of Adamarte have remained more or less the same, aside from some border disputes. Khoros’ monarchy would become reliant on the bribery of those who found wealth as merchants. Lirion is ruled by a council that selects its own next members. Firgrove, when action is needed, is a true democracy, but rarely ever finds itself in positions of peril. Dunvalore’s walls are still up, an elected council of magistrates tending to the city’s forge, which has not gone out since the Tear. Tirnaghlas’ king was usurped by his spawn and consort, and is now ruled by Queen Dulcinea Ardentblade the First and her Princess-Consort Irene, a divination Archlich, as benevolent but ambitious leaders.

### Timeline

- 1538 a.t. (after tear) = current year
- 948 a.t. = Dulcinea Ardentblade crowned the first queen of Tirnaghlas
- The Tear (0 a.t.) = massive battle where the kingdom split into current territories/city-states
- 726 b.t. (before tear) = standardized calendar invented by a cleric of Baraqiel, named after the 8 gods, aprox. ending of the iron age
- 796 b.t. = Muirgel of Khoros unites Adamarte
- ~1000 b.t. = beginning of iron age
- ~2000 b.t. = Baraqiel’s advent
- ~3000 b.t. = beginning of bronze age
- a long time ago = humanoids and other creatures created